Open source means the source code of a software or project is freely available for anyone to:

1. View
2. Use
3. Modify
4. Distribute

Lady Ada Lovelace was the first programmer 

OS: 
These are 2 types of software:

1. GUI: Windows
2. CUI: Linux

Python is a general purpose, interpreted, high level programming language with easy syntax.

Program :  it is a set of instructions

Assembly: Assembly language

compiler: translates the code at once.

Interpreter: Line by Line

High level programming language: human understanding language this needs NLP

Low Level Language is machine understandable language i.e. is in binary code.

Guido Van Russom is the created of python in 1989 and released in 1991.

IDE - integrated development & environment - where we execute, debug, update, write, read, terminal
the code easily.

windows + R key means run command 

Python 3.13.5:
Part	            Meaning
3	   Major version – the main release family (Python 3)
13	   Minor version – new features added in Python 3.x
5	   Patch version – small fixes, improvements, and security updates

pip - preferred installer Program

Virtual Environment - A virtual environment is an isolated workspace that allows you to install and manage packages separately from your system-wide setup.

inside "" the data is a valid chaaracter : -
string value gets converted to ascii value into binary

Python is a case sensitive language

Parameters of print() function are: - 

1. sep
  string inserted between values, default a space.
2. end
  string appended after the last value, default a newline.
3. file
  a file-like object (stream); defaults to the current sys.stdout.
4. flush
  whether to forcibly flush the stream.

ASCII  stands for Amercian standard code for information interchange. For every character there is a assigned number to it in the ASCII.

Common Naming Conventions in Python are: -
1. camelCase e.g.  userName = "Bob"
2. snake_case e.g. user_name = "Aditya"
3. PascalCase (aka UpperCamelCase) e.g. User_Name = "Aditya"


What is Type Error?
A type error is an error that occurs when an operation or function is applied to an object of an inappropriate type
e.g. "10" + 12 gives type error

What is Syntax Error in Python?
A syntax error in Python occurs when the code violates the language's grammatical rules, making it impossible for the interpreter to understand and execute the commands.

Name Error: - 
A NameError in Python occurs when the program attempts to use a variable, function, or module name that has not been defined or is not accessible in the current scope.-

execution Cycle Process:
Compiled Language
Source Code (.c / .cpp)
        ↓ (Compiler)
Object Code (.obj / .o)
        ↓ (Linker)
Executable File (.exe / a.out)
        ↓ (Loader)
Running Program (CPU executes machine code)

Interpreted Language

Python Source Code (.py)
        ↓ (Python Interpreter)
Bytecode (.pyc) [optional step, auto-generated by interpreter]
        ↓ (Python Virtual Machine - PVM)
Machine Code (Generated and executed at runtime)
